My name is Christine Marquette, and I'm a
registered dietitian with The Austin Regional
Clinic, and I'm going to talk to you about
the side effects of kidney dialysis. There
are many different side effects associated
with kidney dialysis, and some of them depend
on the type of dialysis that you're getting.
There are two main types, hemodialysis and
peritoneal dialysis, or PD. PD is the type
of dialysis that a person can actually do
at home or on the job. With this particular
type there's actually a couple of other subtypes.
One involves basically what is called ambulatory
dialysis, and this particular person has a
catheter that's been implanted into their
abdomen. They are doing exchanges with the
diasolate solution where they basically pour
in the diasolate solution, go on about their
business for four or five hours, and then
drain out the diasolate solution, and exchange
it with a new solution. The risk in this particular
type is infection in that particular area
where the catheter is, because again, you
have exposure from your outside skin. There
could be any source of bacteria that may enter
into the diasolate solution, so you have a
very high risk of infection, not just on the
catheter area, but also inside your peritoneal
cavity, or your peritoneum, so there is a
very high risk for that source of infection.
Another type of side effect that could be
associated with PD is actually developing
hernias. The reason why is because your muscles
in your abdomen become weak when using this
form of dialysis, and because you have all
of that liquid solution in there it is pushing
putting even more pressure on these already
weak muscles, so you have a very high risk
of developing a hernia. If you're using hemodialysis
that's a type of dialysis where you actually
are going into a dialysis center about three
days a week, and you're in there for about
four hours, and there you could also have
infection, but more common side effects are
things like low blood pressure, having very
dry skin, itchy skin, and you can actually
also become malnourished if you're not consuming
enough high quality protein. And another possible
side effect would be actually having excess
levels of phosphorus if you aren't following
the renal diet that's been prescribed for
you. So, there's actually several different
side effects that can occur, depending on
whether you're using peritoneal dialysis or
hemodialysis.